one of the worst mistakes beginning
traders make is to not pay enough
attention to their trade entries
neglecting the importance of a good
entry and exit can make a huge
difference to your bottom line in this
video you will learn all the do's and do
nots of opening and closing trades
before we get into the nitty-gritty of
actually setting up the best possible
trade order let us first talk about how
to set your trades up for success one of
the biggest mistakes that you can make
is to not have a clear trading plan
without a plan
you're basically trading blind to help
you always have a trading plan from now
on I'm going to present you a step by
step checklist that walks you through
every aspect to consider before sending
any trade order if you go through all
these steps you should never again be in
a trade that you don't know what to do
with let's now go through this trading
plan template first of all I recommend
taking a look at upcoming events even
though this doesn't directly affect your
trade looking at future events before
opening a trade can save you from
unwelcome surprises are there any
upcoming dividend payments earnings or
other upcoming events that might clash
with your trade plan around these events
stocks often behave differently and they
normally would so either be aware of
this or avoid trading through these
events next up define your risk never
open the trade without knowing your max
loss way too many traders don't do this
even though this is a must for you to be
able to manage the risk besides defining
your risk you should also define your
reward have a clear profit target that
tells you when to take profits without a
clear profit target it's easy to tell
yourself to wait for just a little more
doing this will lead to winning trades
turning into losing ones after defining
your max risk and Max reward is very
easy to calculate your risk to reward
ratio so make sure to do exactly that
actually calculating and seeing your
risk reward ratio will give you more
insight into the payoff
of your trade a good rule of thumb is
that your risk to reward ratio is better
than 1 to 2 but note that as an options
trader you should also take the
probability of profit into account it's
totally ok that your risk is greater
than your reward as long as your
probability of profit is high enough
furthermore you should also define the
time frame of your trade is it a day
trade swing trade or long term
investment obviously you don't need to
know the exact time that you're going to
be in the trade but you should have an
estimate of the trades time frame inside
of your trade plan you should also have
a concrete entry plan this plan should
entail your entry price position size
and how you want to open your trade do
you want to open the entire position at
once or slowly average into it lost as
important is your exit plan this should
describe how you're going to close your
position this could include possible
trade adjustments your trade exit price
and exit trigger the most obvious exit
trigger would be a certain price level
but it certainly isn't limited to that
you could for instance also use a
timeframe probability of profit certain
indicator values or the P&L of your
position as an exit trigger moreover
your exit plan should include how you're
going to close the position last but not
least a trade plan could also include
other notes such as the motivation
behind the trade your directional
assumption a trade description or
something else
hopefully this template gives you an
idea about what a good trading plan
could look like if you want to use this
specific template for your own trades
check out the link in the description
box below to download it it's very
important to create such a trading plan
before you open your trade this allows
you to stay rational and clear-headed as
soon as you open your trade you lose the
ability to evaluate the position
objectively furthermore it's a great
idea to actually write down your trading
plan especially for beginning traders
this is a good exercise with time you
will be able to do this in your head but
like everything
this requires practice so even though
writing down your plan takes time it
will force you to really think about
your trade this is also a great counter
against impulsive trades or as I like to
call them Gamble's if you ever again
find yourself in the situation that you
have no clue what to do with your trade
just take a peek at your trading plan
and you will see the answer to this
question after you close a trade you
should always ask yourself did you stick
to your trading plan if you didn't why
not and what could you do better next
time
if you did was it a good plan or how
could you improve the plan next time
asking and answering these questions
will allow you to continually improve
your trading plans and thereby your
trades a great place to answer these
questions is in your trading journal
having a good trading journal is another
great way to evaluate your trades
without falling prey to cognitive biases
and subjectivity if you currently do not
have a trading journal I highly
recommend starting one as soon as
possible if you need some guidance on
how to create the most effective trading
journal check out the link to my guide
in the description below if that being
said let us now look at how to set up
the best possible trade order even
though setting up an order might seem
like an easy task that still are many
things that you can do wrong for example
the biggest mistakes that many traders
make is using market orders a market
order gives you the next available price
this will get you filled very fast but
more often than not the price will be
bad so what should you do instead
instead of market orders use limit
orders limit orders allow you to set a
fixed price at which you want to get
filled out either you will get filled at
this price or you won't get filled at
all as long as just don't set your price
too aggressively and the security is
liquid enough you will get filled at
your desired price anyway but even if
your order isn't filled it is often
better to miss a trade and to accept a
bad entry price since a bad entry price
would mean more risk and less profit
potential to choose a good limit price
it is important to understand how the
bid-ask
bread works so let me quickly recap this
the bid price is the highest price a
buyer is willing to buy the underlying
security for and the ask price is the
lowest price a seller is willing to sell
it for the bid-ask spread is the sprint
between these two prices to get filled
as fast as possible you need to move
closer to the ask price when buying and
closer to the bid price when selling for
most securities however these prices
change all the time
therefore you can often get filled at
the mid-price that's also why I
recommend always setting your limit
order price at the mid-price to begin
with if this doesn't get you filled you
can always readjust later on ordering at
the mid-price can save you thousands of
dollars over the long run last but not
least I recommend setting your orders to
expire at the end of the current trading
session but if you don't want this you
can always choose a good to cancel order
this order type will stay active until
it is either failed or you cancel it
manually this is especially useful to
automatically take profits on a given
trade for instance if you know your
profit target you can just send out a
good to the concert order as soon as you
open your trade and let the order sit
the same can be done for the downside
with a stop loss an alternative to good
to the cancel orders are good to date
orders the only difference between the
two is that good to a date expire after
a certain preset days whereas the good
to cancel order has to be concert
manually unless it's filled song brokers
even offer bracket orders these are also
known as one cancels other orders such
an order allows you to send out two
orders one to take profits and want to
cut losses and as soon as one is filled
the other one is automatically cancelled
this is a great way to automate your
trading plan it's hard to make
discretionary trading more mechanical
than this last but at least here are
some tips to get feel it faster first of
all make sure to trade liquid securities
if you aren't trading liquid securities
fails will take much longer and even
worse it will leave a lot of money on
that
due to a wide bid-ask spread if you're
trading options you could analyze option
chains for options with high open
interests and volume getting filled on
these options is much easier than other
ones the next tip would be to scale into
your trades instead of opening your
entire position in one order break it
down into multiple smaller orders this
can decrease field times dramatically
note that you should only try this if
your broker's commission structure
doesn't charge you too much for each
order otherwise placing orders at route
numbers can often help you since route
numbers typically attract much more stop
losses and limit orders than other
prices if none of these things help you
could always move your price closer to
the bids or ask price but only do this
if the new price is still good enough
with that being said let me quickly sum
up some of the most important points of
this video firstly you should always
have a clear trading plan and make sure
to create this before your trade if you
don't know how to create a trading plan
just use my template furthermore make
sure to keep a trading journal so that
you can track your progress and learn
from your mistakes I also have a guide
on this that you can check out through
the link in the description box below
otherwise don't use market orders but
instead use limit orders a good limit
price to start with is the mid price
last but not least focus on trading
liquid securities with high-volume
otherwise you're just throwing money out
of the window I really hope you enjoyed
this video and learn something new if
you did make sure to let me know in the
comment section below otherwise don't
forget to smash the like button
subscribe and turn on the notification
down thanks for watching
you